Years after the events of the series, Jim
Phelps and his team, the Impossible Missions
Force (IMF), attempt to retrieve the CIA non-official
cover list from the American embassy in Prague.
Their mission fails: Phelps is shot, his wife
Claire dies in a car bombing, and the rest
of the team except Ethan Hunt are eliminated
by unknown assassins.
Meeting with IMF director Eugene Kittridge,
Hunt reveals his awareness of a second IMF
team sent to monitor them, and learns the
job was a setup to lure out a mole within
IMF, who is believed to be working with an
arms dealer known as "Max" as part of "Job
314."
As Hunt is the only member left, Kittridge
suspects him of being the mole, and Hunt flees.
Returning to the Prague safe house, Hunt realizes
"Job 314" refers to Bible verse Job 3:14,
"Job" being the mole's code name.
Claire arrives at the safe house, explaining
she escaped the bomb after Phelps aborted
the mission.
Hunt arranges a meeting with Max, and warns
her that the list she possesses has a tracking
device.
He promises to deliver the real list in return
for $10 million and Job's identity.
Hunt, Max, and her agents escape just as a
CIA team arrives.
Hunt recruits two disavowed IMF agents: computer
expert Luther Stickell and pilot Franz Krieger.
They infiltrate CIA headquarters in Langley,
steal the real list, and flee to London.
Kittridge, detecting the theft, has Hunt's
mother and uncle falsely arrested for drug
trafficking.
He provides media coverage of the arrest,
forcing Hunt to contact him from Liverpool
Street Station.
Hunt allows the CIA to trace him to London
before hanging up, but is surprised to find
Phelps nearby.
Phelps recounts surviving the shooting, naming
Kittridge as the mole.
Hunt realizes Phelps is the mole, having discovered
that Phelps stole a Gideons Bible from a Chicago
hotel.
He also suspects Krieger as the one who killed
the other IMF members on the Prague job, but
is unsure whether Claire was involved.
Hunt arranges with Max to exchange the list
aboard the TGV train to Paris the next day.
On the train, Hunt remotely directs Max to
the list.
Max verifies it and gives Hunt the code to
a briefcase containing the payment along with
Job in the baggage car.
Ethan calls Claire and tells her to meet him
there.
Meanwhile, Stickell uses a jamming device
to prevent Max from uploading the data to
her servers.
Claire reaches the baggage car, finds Phelps
and tells him Ethan will arrive shortly.
She questions the idea of killing Ethan, since
they will need a fall guy for the money, when
Phelps reveals himself to be Ethan in disguise,
exposing her as a co-conspirator.
When the real Phelps arrives and takes the
money at gunpoint, Hunt dons a pair of video
glasses that relays Phelps to Kittridge, blowing
Phelps' cover as the mole.
Phelps threatens to kill Ethan, but shoots
Claire instead when she intervenes.
He climbs to the roof of the train, where
Krieger is waiting with a helicopter and a
tether.
Hunt connects the tether to the train itself,
forcing the helicopter into the Channel Tunnel
after the train.
Hunt places an explosive chewing gum on the
helicopter windshield, killing Krieger and
Phelps.
Kittridge arrests Max and recovers the list,
then reinstates Hunt and Stickell as IMF agents,
but Hunt resigns.
As he flies home, a flight attendant approaches
him and asks, through a coded phrase, if he
is ready to take on a new mission, just as
she asked Phelps at the beginning.